
When it's comming to detect dark matter, there are two main chalenges:
    first, we do not know what we want to detect:
        Dark matter is thought to not interact with the electromagnetic force an the strong force. Yet it interacts with gravity and may interact with the weak force or other fundamental forces that are unknown. 
    second, even if we observe something that may be dark matter, we cannot tell for sure if it's dark matter

    Scientist have come up with two strategies of trying to detect dark matter:

In a direct search, they design an experiment and they hope that the Dark Matter particle comes in the volume of the experiment and somehow excites an particle, nuclei or subatomic particle inside the volume. This will emit energy in the form of photons at the order of tens of keV inside the experiment. No hints so far.
In indirect search it is thought that Dark Matter are new particles which are decayng into fluxes of standard particles. These are the so called Weak Interacting Massive Particles(WIMP), theoretized by an extension of the Standard Model called SUper SYmetry(SUSY) and are hypotetical candidates for Dark Matter. Theories suggest that they are everywhere around us and could explain why Galaxies are heavier than the sum of their visible materia. As their name suggest they interract only with gravity and maybe with the weak nuclear force. They are not receptive for electromagnetic force which means we can t see them, but it's supossed they are massive(1 GeV). The problem with these theoretical particles is that they are weakly interactive. So bacically experiments at LHC are trying to accelerate particles at high energies (GeV) collide them and search for particle which decays are not predicted by the currecnt Standard Model but are predicted by SUSY. More details here 

Feynman diagram for dark matter particle

So the boost that the electron gets from the interaction with the dark matter particle is transfered to the detector and we get a electromagnetic shower. The problem is that a neutrino that interacts with a nucleus produces an electron that gets a boost resulting a similar electromagnetic shower, which is the so called background noise. Our goal is to use machine learning to correctly eliminate background noise and detect only electromagnetic showers resulted from potential dark matter particles.

Eliminate background noise

 So, to clasify a signal as background noise only if:

    -the neutrino transforms into proton and trajectory of the proton is detected
    -traces of hadron showers are detected in addition to electromagnetic showers
    -the final particle could possibly be created via dark matter, but energy angle correlation of the detected electron points to the presence of neutrino.

    Otherwise, the signal is classified as comming from a potential of dark matter  particle.

    The scale of the problem is huge. Think for example that in an LHC experiement there are 10^9 particles interactions, 10^7 tracks from which only 10^3 are electromagnetic showers. The rest are noise. We want to obtain the following(from left to right)

    Analysing OPERA dataset
